== Features ==
The features added by this ZenPack can be summarized as follows.
They are each detailed further below.
* Discovery and periodic remodeling of relevant components.
* Performance monitoring.
* Event monitoring.
* Optional service impact with addition of Zenoss Service Dynamics product.

=== Discovery ===
The following values are discovered:
; Docker Container
: ''Attributes'': Name, Image, Command, Created, Container State, Ports, Root FS Size, Root FS Size Used, Root FS Size Available, Root FS Used %

=== Performance Monitoring ===
The following metrics will be collected and graphed every 5 minutes by default:
; Docker Container
: ''CPU User'': CPU User usage, ticks
: ''CPU System'': CPU User usage, ticks
: ''Memory'': Memory usage, bytes

=== Event monitoring ===
The following events will be triggered with respect to the monitored metrics:
; Docker Container
: ''Error'': The container is down.

=== Service Impact ===
When combined with the Zenoss Service Dynamics product, this ZenPack adds
built-in service impact capability for Docker Containers. The following service impact
relationships are automatically added. These will be included in any services
containing one or more of the explicitly mentioned entities.
;Service Impact Relationships
* Device affects related Docker Containers.

== Troubleshooting ==
Please refer the the Zenoss Service Dynamics documentation if you run into
any of the following problems:
* ZenPack will not install
* Adding a device fails
* Don't understand how to add a device
* Don't understand how to model a device
If you cannot find the answer in the documentation, then Resource Manager (Service Dynamics)
users should contact [https://support.zenoss.com Zenoss Customer Support].
Core users can use the #zenoss IRC channel or the community.zenoss.org forums.

== Installed Items ==
Installing this ZenPack will add the following items to your Zenoss system.
;Modeler Plugins
* DockerCollector
;Monitoring Templates
* DockerContainer
* DockerContainerSize
;Component Types
* DockerContainer (on related device)

== Containers metrics ==
ZenPack monitors containers for CPU and memory usage using information from control groups.
Monitoring template "DockerContainer" is configured to look for metrics files in "/sys/fs/cgroup/cpuacct/docker/Container_ID/" location.

On some Linux distros or versions this can differ and will result in empty graphs data.
If you are experiencing such issue check your filesystem for actual location of metrics and do changes in Zenoss (menu "Advanced", "Monitoring Templates", "DockerContainer" item).

Please also refer to official Docker page about metrics: https://docs.docker.com/articles/runmetrics/

== Docker on Microsoft Windows ==
Currently ZenPack don't support monitoring of Docker installed on Microsoft Windows systems.

== Docker 1.2 note ==

For Docker versions older than 1.3 monitoring of containers' sizes is not supported.

== Known issues ==

;Error message "Dial unix /var/run/docker.sock: permission denied. Are you trying to connect to a TLS-enabled daemon without TLS?"
* This means that user you using to connect to Docker server has no permissions to execute 'docker' command. It may be fixed by adding this user to 'docker' group.

{{ZenPackFooter}}
